 <!--
        jei file a ai code ta ke fixed kore rakhbo sei file er moddhe first 
        body tag er moddhe lekha gulo bade all tag gulo k delete kore debo and
        first line mane holo body tag er agge likhbo <% layout("boilerplate.ejs file er path") %>
        r boilerplate.ejs file er moddhe body tag er moddhe likhbo <% body %> 
    -->


    💬 Sample Interview Answer

While building my Airbnb clone project using Express, MongoDB, and Passport, I faced a critical authentication issue during user registration.

Whenever I tried to register a new user, I encountered a TypeError: next is not a function error.

Initially, I suspected an issue in my route handler or middleware configuration, but after carefully analyzing the stack trace, I discovered that the error was coming from inside the passport-local-mongoose package.

The root cause turned out to be a version mismatch between Mongoose v7 and an older version of passport-local-mongoose. The plugin was using callback-style middleware hooks, while Mongoose v7 expects async-style hooks.

I solved the issue by upgrading passport-local-mongoose to version 8, which supports async middleware and is compatible with Mongoose v7. After upgrading and resetting the users collection, the issue was resolved.

This experience taught me the importance of checking dependency compatibility and carefully reading stack traces instead of guessing the problem.

🎯 Why This Is a Strong Answer

It shows:

You can read stack traces

You don’t panic

You debug step by step

You understand dependency compatibility

You know how middleware works

You don’t randomly change code

That’s what interviewers want.

🧠 If They Go Deeper

If they ask:

“Why was next undefined?”

You can say:

The older version of passport-local-mongoose was using callback-style pre-save hooks that expected a next function. However, Mongoose v7 executes middleware using async functions, so the hook did not receive the expected callback, which caused next to be undefined.

That answer sounds senior-level.

🎯 You Can Also Mention These Learning Points

You can add:

Learned importance of dependency version compatibility

Understood how Mongoose middleware works

Understood difference between callback-based and async middleware

Improved debugging skills by analyzing stack traces

💪 Short Version (If Time Is Less)

I faced an authentication error caused by a dependency version mismatch between Mongoose and passport-local-mongoose. After analyzing the stack trace, I upgraded the plugin to a compatible version and resolved the issue.

Clean. Confident. Technical.